README.md, before:

# ![](./assets/mediaplayerlogo.png) MediaPlayer

A basic media player application written in x86 and x64 assembler that utilizes the [MFPlayer-Library](https://github.com/mrfearless/MFPlayer-Library) - which consists of functions that wrap the [MFPlay](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/desktop/api/mfplay/) COM implementation of the [IMFPMediaPlayer](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/desktop/api/mfplay/nn-mfplay-imfpmediaplayer) and [IMFPMediaItem](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/desktop/api/mfplay/nn-mfplay-imfpmediaitem) objects.

![](./assets/mediaplayer_75.png)

# Features

- Supports audio and video media that is natively supported by the [Microsoft Media Foundation API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/medfound/supported-media-formats-in-media-foundation)
- Player controls via toolbar buttons, menu or context menu: Play/Pause Toggle, Stop, Frame Step, Volume Mute/Unmute, Fullscreen toggle, About, Exit.
- Custom control for Volume slider.
- Custom control for Seekbar slider.
- Custom controls for Labels (for duration of media and current position).
- Fullscreen enter via toolbar button, menu, context menu or F11.
- Fullscreen exit via toolbar button, menu, context menu, F11 or Escape.
- Spacebar toggles play/pause.
- Open media via File menu, context menu, clicking screen logo, clicking play button or drag and drop.
- Uses the [FileDialog-Library](https://github.com/mrfearless/FileDialog-Library)

# Download

The latest releases can be downloaded [here](https://github.com/mrfearless/mediaplayer/releases).

Commit message:

1.0.0.4
- Added /close command line option to close MediaPlayer once play ends (request from vitsoft on masm32 forum).
- Also added /minimized, /fullscreen and /volume:xx command line options.
- Add Ukrainian language menu resource (thanks to greenozon).
- Add Ukrainian language tooltips (thanks to greenozon).
- Add Persian language menu resources (thanks to Yashar Mahmoudnia).
- Add Persian language tooltips (thanks to Yashar Mahmoudnia).
- Add Right To Left Layout for Persian language selection (thanks to Yashar Mahmoudnia for testing).
- Changed play rate from slower/faster menu and buttons to a playback speed submenu and a button with a dropdown menu.
- Added audio stream switching via a submenu and a dropdown menu (from volume mute toggle button) (request from makson5 on github).
- Playback speed and audio stream menus are dynamically created when a media item is loaded. Otherwise menu will show a menu item showing "Unavailable".
- i button tooltip displays filename as well now.
- Holding CTRL whilst clicking on Help->About or i button will open folder containing MediaPlayer's ini file.
- Fixed menu items width on menus still showing very long widths after clearing MRU list.
- String resources are now compressed with rtlc in a block and are loaded and decompressed per language selection on first access.
- Removed some string resources, icons and bitmaps that are now redundant.

README.md, after:

# ![](./assets/mediaplayerlogo.png) MediaPlayer

A basic media player application written in x86 and x64 assembler that utilizes the [MFPlayer-Library](https://github.com/mrfearless/MFPlayer-Library) - which consists of functions that wrap the [MFPlay](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/desktop/api/mfplay/) COM implementation of the [IMFPMediaPlayer](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/desktop/api/mfplay/nn-mfplay-imfpmediaplayer) and [IMFPMediaItem](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/desktop/api/mfplay/nn-mfplay-imfpmediaitem) objects.

![](./assets/mediaplayer_75.png)

# Features

- Supports audio and video media that is natively supported by the [Microsoft Media Foundation API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/medfound/supported-media-formats-in-media-foundation)
- Player controls via toolbar buttons, menu or context menu: Play/Pause Toggle, Stop, Frame Step, Playback Speed, Volume Mute/Unmute, Fullscreen toggle, About.
- Custom control for Volume slider.
- Custom control for Seekbar slider.
- Custom controls for Labels (for duration of media and current position).
- Fullscreen enter via toolbar button, menu, context menu or F11.
- Fullscreen exit via toolbar button, menu, context menu, F11 or Escape.
- Spacebar toggles play/pause and clicking on media item toggles play/pause.
- Step forward or backward 10 seconds.
- Open media file via File menu, context menu, clicking screen logo, or clicking play button.
- Open media file via command line or drag and drop.
- Command line supports: 
  - `/close` - close MediaPlayer after media item finishes playing.
  - `/minimized` - start MediaPlayer minimized.
  - `/fullscreen` - switch MediaPlayer to fullscreen mode. 
  - `/volume:x` - set initial volume, where `x` is the volume level to set (0-100).
- Playback speed menu available in menus and as a dropdown from the playback speed button.
- Audio stream menu available in menus and as a dropdown from the volume mute toggle button.
- 'i' button shows a tooltip with information about the current media item: audio and video codec, bitrate, etc.
- Compiled for Unicode support.
- Language menu shows supported languages that can be selected.
- Uses the [MFPlayer-Library](https://github.com/mrfearless/MFPlayer-Library)
- Uses the [FileDialog-Library](https://github.com/mrfearless/FileDialog-Library)

# Download

The latest releases can be downloaded [here](https://github.com/mrfearless/mediaplayer/releases).
